NOTES.md, before:

# Noteful repositories

###### 01/01/2021

The basic idea I have is this:

- Add pre-commit hook so that a Notes.md file in the repository is preprocessed (sensitive information can be redacted) and added to each commit
- Add hook during pulling so that non-redacted changes are preferred... I don't know how this'll be done yet.

These hooks could probably be added to any repository (in the `.git/hooks` directory so they're not version controlled) in order to make it a noteful repository!

What would be even cooler is if upon committing (or pushing to GitHub and use Actions) a search index is generated (or a pre-trained model encodes the text) to make the notes more easily searchable or enable semantic search!

## Redaction

Can probably use a simple sed script. I'm 'introducing' a new markdown syntax of ` [REDACTED] ` -- namely because it's easy to make regex patterns for eager pair matching, and Typora (and other editors) do auto-pairing for curly braces, which makes it quick and easy to type. And -- to my knowledge -- I don't think ` [REDACTED] ` is too common in languages, so it hopefully shouldn't show up in code snippets.

Normally the pattern ` [REDACTED] ` with the `g` and `s` options would be enough -- `s` tells regex to include newlines in dot. But sed doesn't accept the `s` option!

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8624283/how-to-tell-sed-dot-match-new-line

Aaaaand it also doesn't handle non-greedy (lazy) matches!

https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/128362/lazy-regex-using-bash

But `perl` does! I just don't know if it's included in GitBash by default (it would be nicest if the only requirement was GitBash itself)

I'm having some issues though with the multi-line stuff still.

https://www.systutorials.com/how-to-match-multiple-lines-using-regex-in-perl-one-liners/

Which I can resolve by adding the `-0` flag (even without any arguments)

The (close to) final result

```bash
perl -0 -pe 's/ [REDACTED] / [REDACTED] /gs' infile
```

it might be fun to use full blocks █ for redaction. But they might be annoying too!

I'd like to be able to escape the pattern too. New pattern just uses a couple negative lookbehinds for this: `(?<!\\) [REDACTED] `

---

The pre-commit hook works beautifully!

I'm having it take my symlinked Notes.md (ignored) and put the redacted output into NOTES.md (versioned).

Since I've now updated these notes and would like to commit them (although I haven't changed any code in the repo yet) I can try `git commit --allow-empty`.

That being said, I feel like the notes shouldn't be ignored, since it's annoying to need to do that allow-empty commit if you want to add note changes...

Another way I could handle the files is by creating a temporary backup of the non-redacted notes, replacing the original with the redacted, adding the redacted, and then reverting to the backup.

Only issue I see with this is figuring out how to handle `git pull`. But hey -- maybe it's time we figure that out!

In the mean time, the empty commit worked great.

---

## Public vs private notes

Let's try working with NOTES.md as our main note file.

Ideally I can keep an editor open on the file the whole time without any issue. Let's see.

I feel very strongly about avoiding `-i` in-place -- I do **not** want to ever incidentally remove information.

So far so good -- it seems I was able to temporary move (rename) the original file/symlink, then create the redacted version, add it, and then move the original back. Typora at least remained open the entire time and everything's still here!

In this setting, because the repository will have the public-facing notes whereas the local filesystem has the private-facing notes, NOTES.md will *always* show as modified. Oh well. Seems fine to me.

What happens if I **undo** a commit with `git reset HEAD~`?

Seemed to be fine -- even though I had added some content to these notes it just kept it!

Commit message:

Remove old file; Test for pulling redacted notes.

NOTES.md, after:

# Noteful repositories

###### 01/01/2021

The basic idea I have is this:

- Add pre-commit hook so that a Notes.md file in the repository is preprocessed (sensitive information can be redacted) and added to each commit
- Add hook during pulling so that non-redacted changes are preferred... I don't know how this'll be done yet.

These hooks could probably be added to any repository (in the `.git/hooks` directory so they're not version controlled) in order to make it a noteful repository!

What would be even cooler is if upon committing (or pushing to GitHub and use Actions) a search index is generated (or a pre-trained model encodes the text) to make the notes more easily searchable or enable semantic search!

## Redaction

Can probably use a simple sed script. I'm 'introducing' a new markdown syntax of ` [REDACTED] ` -- namely because it's easy to make regex patterns for eager pair matching, and Typora (and other editors) do auto-pairing for curly braces, which makes it quick and easy to type. And -- to my knowledge -- I don't think ` [REDACTED] ` is too common in languages, so it hopefully shouldn't show up in code snippets.

Normally the pattern ` [REDACTED] ` with the `g` and `s` options would be enough -- `s` tells regex to include newlines in dot. But sed doesn't accept the `s` option!

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8624283/how-to-tell-sed-dot-match-new-line

Aaaaand it also doesn't handle non-greedy (lazy) matches!

https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/128362/lazy-regex-using-bash

But `perl` does! I just don't know if it's included in GitBash by default (it would be nicest if the only requirement was GitBash itself)

I'm having some issues though with the multi-line stuff still.

https://www.systutorials.com/how-to-match-multiple-lines-using-regex-in-perl-one-liners/

Which I can resolve by adding the `-0` flag (even without any arguments)

The (close to) final result

```bash
perl -0 -pe 's/ [REDACTED] / [REDACTED] /gs' infile
```

it might be fun to use full blocks █ for redaction. But they might be annoying too!

I'd like to be able to escape the pattern too. New pattern just uses a couple negative lookbehinds for this: `(?<!\\) [REDACTED] `

---

The pre-commit hook works beautifully!

I'm having it take my symlinked Notes.md (ignored) and put the redacted output into NOTES.md (versioned).

Since I've now updated these notes and would like to commit them (although I haven't changed any code in the repo yet) I can try `git commit --allow-empty`.

That being said, I feel like the notes shouldn't be ignored, since it's annoying to need to do that allow-empty commit if you want to add note changes...

Another way I could handle the files is by creating a temporary backup of the non-redacted notes, replacing the original with the redacted, adding the redacted, and then reverting to the backup.

Only issue I see with this is figuring out how to handle `git pull`. But hey -- maybe it's time we figure that out!

In the mean time, the empty commit worked great.

---

## Public vs private notes

Let's try working with NOTES.md as our main note file.

### Committing

Ideally I can keep an editor open on the file the whole time without any issue. Let's see.

I feel very strongly about avoiding `-i` in-place -- I do **not** want to ever incidentally remove information.

So far so good -- it seems I was able to temporary move (rename) the original file/symlink, then create the redacted version, add it, and then move the original back. Typora at least remained open the entire time and everything's still here!

In this setting, because the repository will have the public-facing notes whereas the local filesystem has the private-facing notes, NOTES.md will *always* show as `modified`. Additionally, since I'm using a symlink to keep my notes elsewhere it always shows `typechange`. Oh well, doesn't really affect anything except for the satisfaction of an 'all up to date' status :upside_down_face: . Seems fine to me.

What happens if I **undo** a commit with `git reset HEAD~`?

Seemed to be fine -- even though I had added some content to these notes it just kept it!

Yeah, honestly, things seem to be working really well!

To test commit reset robustness, I'm writing this after committing, then I'll save, close my editor, reset, and re-open.

Everything remains :)

### Pulling

Alright, time for the pull test! The following content should be redacted in the public repository because it is *very sensitive*:  [REDACTED] . That being said, it should remain in my private notes because it's *very important*!

Let's see how git gets angry when I try to pull, and how I can possibly resolve this with a merge hook.
